In this section, we're going to continue with the theme of cleanup and consolidation,
specifically for the page dimension.
Because fragmentation of the page dimension can occur on a huge scale.
It's not uncommon to go into an enterprise level Google Analytics data
capture and sometimes see hundreds of thousands of rows in the pages report.
Sometimes maxed out to a million page variations over the course of let's say, a month.
This multitude of page dimensions,
makes many things more difficult in GA. First of all,
we just have to deal with a huge number of rows in the pages report.
So any reporting we're doing within the pages report,
is going to be a lot more difficult.
It makes many other aspects of Google Analytics harder as well.
Exit page analysis is harder.
Navigation Summary, which Dimeris walked us through previously,
will be much harder if we don't have our pages consolidated.
Goal and funnel configuration will be harder.
Any page metric including
the page value metric which we will look at in an upcoming session,
will be harder to interpret.
The problem itself is often caused by query parameters.
Just to be clear, the query parameters are
not in any way bad from a development practice,
but they pose a challenge for us in Google Analytics.
So there's nothing that we have to change in
our actual web development processes to eliminate query parameters,
we just have to address
the query parameter fragmentation in our Google Analytics data capture.
Let's consider two very different examples of query parameters.
Let's say that on our travel site,
we have ARTICLE.PHP?ID=123 and that page is about Iceland.
And let's say another page has ID=456 and that page is about Greenland.
In this case, we don't want to strip out the ID query parameter.
And we don't want to consolidate these URLs,
because they represent two different end user experiences.
In contrast, let's say that we have a login that leads to a welcome page.
And when Rebecca logs in,
ID=123 and the page says, "Welcome Rebecca."
When Oscar logs in,
ID=456 and a page says, "Welcome Oscar."
These are two very different scenarios and we're going to deal with them differently.
In the travel scenario,
the query parameters determine different page content.
That's critical. So, it's okay to rewrite these URLs to
something more human-readable but we don't want to consolidate them.
At a minimum, we want to leave them alone.
The welcome page scenario is completely different.
The query parameters do not determine different page content.
As an analyst, we don't need to know and we in fact
should not know that it was Rebecca or Oscar logging in.
All we want to know,
is that there were two page views of the welcome page.
This is where we want to strip out the query parameters and
consolidate our page dimensions just to the welcome page.